The President:
Almost three weeks ago in Syria,
more than 1,000
innocent people -
including hundreds
of children -
were murdered in the worst
chemical weapons attack
of the 21st century.
And the United States has
presented a powerful case
to the world that the Syrian
government was responsible
for this horrific attack
on its own people.
This was not only a direct
attack on human dignity;
it is a serious threat
to our national security.
There's a reason governments
representing 98 percent of
the world's people have agreed
to ban the use
of chemical weapons.
Not only because they cause
death and destruction
in the most indiscriminate
and inhumane way possible -
but because they can
also fall into the hands
of terrorist groups
who wish to do us harm.
That's why, last weekend,
I announced that,
as Commander in Chief,
I decided that the United States
should take military action
against the Syrian regime.
This is not a decision
I made lightly.
Deciding to use military force
is the most solemn decision
we can make as a nation.
As the leader of the world's
oldest Constitutional democracy,
I also know that our
country will be stronger
if we act together,
and our actions will
be more effective.
That's why I asked
Members of Congress
to debate this issue and vote
on authorizing the use of force.
What we're talking about is
not an open-ended intervention.
This would not be another
Iraq or Afghanistan.
There would be no American
boots on the ground.
Any action we take
would be limited,
both in time and scope -
designed to deter
the Syrian government
from gassing its
own people again
and degrade its
ability to do so.
I know that the American people
are weary after a decade of war,
even as the war
in Iraq has ended,
and the war in Afghanistan
is winding down.
That's why we're not
putting our troops
in the middle
of somebody else's war.
But we are the
United States of America.
We cannot turn
a blind eye to images
like the ones we've
seen out of Syria.
Failing to respond to this
outrageous attack would increase
the risk that chemical
weapons could be used again;
that they would fall into the
hands of terrorists who might
use them against us, and it
would send a horrible signal
to other nations that there
would be no consequences
for their use of these weapons.
All of which would
pose a serious threat
to our national security.
That's why we can't ignore
chemical weapons
attacks like this one -
even if they happen
halfway around the world.
And that's why I call
on Members of Congress,
from both parties,
to come together and stand up
for the kind of world
we want to live in;
the kind of world we want
to leave our children
and future generations.
Thank you.